[[smpp]]
== Short Message Peer to Peer (SMPP)

The _Short Message Peer to Peer (SMPP) Protocol_ <<smpp-34>> has been
used for the communication with SMSCs. OsmoNITB implements version 3.4
of the protocol. Using this interface one can send MT-SMS to an attached
subscriber or receive unrouted MO-SMS.

SMPP describes a situation where multiple ESMEs (External SMS Entities)
interact with a SMSC (SMS Service Center) via the SMPP protocol.  Each
entity is identified by its System Id.  The System ID is a character
string which is configured by the system administrator.

OsmoNITB implements the SMSC side of SMPP and subsequently acts as a TCP
server accepting incoming connections from ESME client programs.

Each ESME identifies itself to the SMSC with its system-id and an
optional shared password.


=== Global SMPP configuration


There is a `smpp` vty node at the top level of the OsmoNITB
configuration.  Under this node, the global SMPP configuration is
performed.


Use the `local-tcp-port` command to define the TCP port at which the
OsmoNITB internal SMSC should listen for incoming SMPP connections.  The
default port assigned to SMPP is 2775.

Use the `system-id` command  to define the System ID of the SMSC.

Use the `policy` parameter to define whether only explicitly configured
ESMEs are permitted to access the SMSC (`closed`), or whether any
ESME should be accepted (`accept-all`).

Use the `smpp-first` command to define if SMPP routes have higher
precedence than MSISDNs contained in the HLR (`smpp-first`), or if
only MSISDNs found not in the HLR should be considered for routing to
SMPP (`no smpp-first`).


=== ESME configuration

nder the `smpp` vty node, you can add any number of `esme` nodes, one
for each ESME that you wish to configure.

Use the `esme NAME` command (where NAME corresponds to the system-id of
the ESME to be configured) under the SMPP vty node to enter the
configuration node for this given ESME.

Use the `password` command to specify the password (if any) for the
ESME.

Use the `default-route` command to indicate that any MO-SMS without a
more specific route should be routed to this ESME.

Use the `deliver-src-imsi` command to indicate that the SMPP DELIVER
messages for MO SMS should state the IMSI (rather than the MSISDN) as
source address.

Use the `osmocom-extensions` command to request that Osmocom specific
extension TLVs shall be included in the SMPP PDUs.  Those extensions
include the ARFCN of the cell, the L1 transmit power of the MS, the
timing advance, the uplink and dwnlink RxLev and RxQual, as well as the
IMEI of the terminal at the time of generating the SMPP DELIVER PDU.

Use the `dcs-transparent` command to transparently pass the DCS value
from the SMS Layer3 protocols to SMPP, instead of converting them to the
SMPP-specific values.

Use the `route prefix` command to specify a route towards this ESME.
Using routes, you specify which destination MSISDNs should be routed
towards your ESME.


=== Example configuration snippet

The following example configuration snippet shows a single ESME
'galactica' with a prefix-route of all national numbers stating with
2342:
----
smpp
 local-tcp-port 2775
 policy closed
 no smpp-first
 esme galactica
  password SoSayWeAll
  deliver-src-imsi
  osmocom-extensions
   route prefix national isdn 2342
----
